SJAS evades Goedel's 2nd Incompleteness Theorem
  - as a warrant for academic interest, this is sufficient to motivate inquiry. Its more rigorous elaboration enhances its value to foundational investigations: by
  parametrizing the statement of G2, SJAS defines a larger/higher dimensional space of logical systems, and demonstrates that at least some unconventional niches are
  inhabited. Yet further, my personal pursuit of SJAS, and the projects in this directory, are situated within the broader research programme of Autarkic Systems,
  which asks what, and to what extent, are the self-powered capabilities (properties, behaviors, etc.) of a system? [The definition of "self-powered" is itself an
  object of study, potentially with its own taxonomy of variations.] Of especial interest are Autarkic Formal Systems, under the theory that characterization of
  (degrees of) autarky for formal systems will inform more concrete autarkic systems, e.g., by demonstrating the possibility of some notion of autarky, or bounding
  its conditions of realizability. Pervasive Reconfigurable Computing [] intersects with AS and AFS insofar as coherent extrapolated volition and other
  self-modifying, self-improving, and bootstrapping capabilities, with guaranteed alignment in the AI Alignment/Safety sense, are strengthened in their aims to the
  extent that they are self-powered. SJAS are a paradigmatic formal system for the AFS line of investigation because they provide a precise capability, syntactic
  consistency, with a precise notion of autarky, the self-provability thereof; there are several other subjects within the constellation of AFS [](e.g.
  Brown-Palsberg), and conceptually related or adjacent topics [](Visser, Andreas Weiermann, proof length, definition of proof, JYG), for which SJAS serves (whether
  objectively or genealogically []) as an entrypoint to the collection. One methods of determining whether SJAS can contribute usefully to the implementation of (the seed of) an
  artificial cogntive entity, e.g. via self-justification as a mechanism for epistemic security [non-underminable certainty in the capacity for one's thoughts to be correct - distinct from the certainty that any given thought is correct, which must be otherwise established, but guaranteeing the conditions of possibility for trusting one's mind. Absent this, machine psychology admits the equivalent of a self-doubting spiral of paranoia, internally or externally triggered.], it to determine whether, as a logical system, an SJAS can be put in correspondence with an executable artifact [other options may qualify, like a theorem prover for SJAS, or a type system for a programming language], such as the computational system of a programming language. The correspondence (if any) between the capabilities of an SJAS and their analogues in the programming language can then be examined for effect on, e.g., what computational behavior can be performed by programs written in the language (to wit, ideally, by enabling the provable conservation of invariants across self-modification). We hypothesized that a correspondence could be constructed directly if the SJAS deductive apparatus, the tableau proof procedure, could be used as the basis for a logic programming language akin to the resolution proof procedure of Prolog. This was best (and indeed uniquely) satisfied by Melvin Fitting's proposal for Proflog - there is a narrow path walked here from the vantage of the overarching research programme, and we do not presume it to be exclusive, but consider it worth exploring to its conclusion, or merger into another way.

[Two phases of generalization, first a Streamlined, Unified, SJAS presentation, second an abstract interpretation of SJAS, aiming for contact with concepts as cross-domain applicable as Lawvere's FPT.]
